Array 1.34.0 Blog Announcement (#3219)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/the-posthog-array-1-34-0.md

---
date: 2022-03-24
title: Array 1.34.0
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
categories: ["Release notes", "Product updates"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-array-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
excerpt: 
---

PostHog 1.34.0 introduces...(Excerpt info here)

<blockquote class='warning-note'>
<b>IMPORTANT!</b> Before upgrading, make sure to run all async migrations on your instance. This version will not run until async migrations are completed. Please check out the <a href="/docs/self-host/configure/async-migrations/overview" target="_blank">async migrations</a> docs for details.
</blockquote>

## PostHog 1.34.0 release notes

> Wondering how to upgrade a self-hosted instance? Check out our [upgrade guide](/docs/self-host/configure/upgrading-posthog).

**Release highlights:**
- [Homepage](#new-homepage)
- [Data Management](#new-data-management)
- [Property Group Filtering](#new-property-group-filtering)
- [Smart Insight Naming](#improvement-smart-insight-naming)
- [Staff Users](#new-staff-users)

> ### New: Homepage

Reviewer: @rcmarron can you write a brief summary of the homepage work for this release? :D

Reviewer 2: How about:

> Projects have a new homepage that help you view your most important insights as quick as possible. This homepage allows you to pin a customizable dashboard to it, so you can configure the metrics that you and your team sees each time you go PostHog.

PostHog now directs you to a default project homepage where you can pin your favorite dashboard to and easily access those insights!

We also use the section below to flag premium features.

> 🎁 This is a premium feature and requires a PostHog Scale or Enterprise license. [Learn more](/pricing).

<br />

> ### New: Data Management

Reviewer: @alexkim205 can you write a brief summary on data management here? And link to your main blogpost and pictures if possible, thanks :D

We also have a new data management system!

PostHog now offers a...simple explanation of a new feature, a link to the docs about it, and a screenshot. 

We also use the section below to flag premium features.

> 🎁 This is a premium feature and requires a PostHog Scale or Enterprise license. [Learn more](/pricing).

<br />

### New: Property Group Filtering (or filters)

A much requested feature is now here with property group filtering. You can mix and match your favorite property filters with ORs and ANDs now.

PostHog now offers a...simple explanation of a new feature, a link to the docs about it, and a screenshot. 

<br />

> ### Improvement: Smart Insight Naming

Reviewer: @Twixes Can you add more about this and other insight improvements you've made here? 😸

Author: Was able to cover this

Previously insights had default random animal generated names that weren't very descriptive, we've now added smart insight naming! 

<br />

### New: Staff Users

> 

Reviewer: @paolodamico Can you add more about staff users and other project settings work you've done here?

Author: Was able to cover this

### New: Property group filtering
![PostHog - property filters](../images/blog/array/1_34_0-property-filter.png)

One of the most requested features for PostHog, property group filters enable you to mix and match your favourite property filters with ```OR```s and ```AND``` conditions. This makes it much simpler to create complex filters when building insights, though this is currently only available as a global filter for insights.

### New: Staff user controls
Self-hosted users can now manage staff users on their instance settings. Staff users are a special instance-level permission which have access to instance-wide settings - and you probably want to have multiple staff users enabled to ensure your instance can always be properly maintained.

You can manage staff users either via the PostHog UI, or the API if you prefer - check out [the staff user docs](/docs/self-host/configure/instance-settings#staff-users) for more information.

### New: Sharding and replication support for ClickHouse

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

Check out the [horizontal scaling runbook](/docs/self-host/runbook/clickhouse/sharding-and-replication) for more information.

### Other improvements & fixes
Version 1.34.0 also adds hundreds of other fixes and improvements, including...

- **Improved**: Dashboard "add insight" flow
- **Improved**: SSO login redirect
- **New:** Experiments secondary metrics
- **New**: Shorter insight links

### Deprecation and removal notices

> - Starting on PostHog 1.35.0 (next version) the way SAML works will change from being instance-based to being domain-based. This means that SAML configuration will no longer happen with environment variables but in the PostHog UI. You will be able to have multiple SAML providers on the same instance (segment by domain, from the user's email address). Please review [SSO docs](/sso) for more details.

Author: ```suggestion
- Starting from PostHog 1.35.0 SAML will change from being instance-based to domain-based. This means that SAML configurations will take place in the PostHog UI. You will be able to have multiple SAML providers on the same instance (segment by domain, from the user's email address). Please review our [SSO docs](/sso) for more details.
```

> - If you use SAML on your self-hosted instance and have enabled SAML enforcement (previously `SAML_ENFORCED` environment variable). Please be aware this environment configuration has been deprecated too. You will now need to configure SSO enforcement via Authentication domains (see [SSO docs](/sso) for more details.)

Author: ```suggestion
- If you use SAML on a self-hosted instance and have enabled SAML enforcement (previously `SAML_ENFORCED` environment variable) then this environment configuration has been deprecated too. You will now need to configure SSO enforcement via Authentication domains (see [SSO docs](/sso) for more details.)
```

### New: Staff user controls
Self-hosted users can now manage staff users on their instance settings. Staff users are a special instance-level permission which have access to instance-wide settings - and you probably want to have multiple staff users enabled to ensure your instance can always be properly maintained.

You can manage staff users either via the PostHog UI, or the API if you prefer - check out [the staff user docs](/docs/self-host/configure/instance-settings#staff-users) for more information.

### New: Sharding and replication support for ClickHouse

Self-hosted users can now shard and replicate their data on ClickHouse to scale horizontally. This can help improve fault tolerance and improve query performance in certain situations.

Check out the [horizontal scaling runbook](/docs/self-host/runbook/clickhouse/sharding-and-replication) for more information.
### Other improvements & fixes
Version 1.34.0 also adds hundreds of other fixes and improvements, including...

- **Improved**: Dashboard "add insight" flow
- **Improved**: SSO login redirect
- **New:** Experiments secondary metrics
- **New**: Shorter insight links

### Deprecation and removal notices

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

### New: Staff user controls
Self-hosted users can now manage staff users on their instance settings. Staff users are a special instance-level permission which have access to instance-wide settings - and you probably want to have multiple staff users enabled to ensure your instance can always be properly maintained.

You can manage staff users either via the PostHog UI, or the API if you prefer - check out [the staff user docs](/docs/self-host/configure/instance-settings#staff-users) for more information.

### New: Sharding and replication support for ClickHouse

Self-hosted users can now shard and replicate their data on ClickHouse to scale horizontally. This can help improve fault tolerance and improve query performance in certain situations.

Check out the [horizontal scaling runbook](/docs/self-host/runbook/clickhouse/sharding-and-replication) for more information.
### Other improvements & fixes
Version 1.34.0 also adds hundreds of other fixes and improvements, including...

- **Improved**: Dashboard "add insight" flow
- **Improved**: SSO login redirect
- **New:** Experiments secondary metrics
- **New**: Shorter insight links

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---

PostHog 1.34.0 focuses on supporting collaboration and helping you to find and share insights on PostHog. New features in this update include a new default homepage for projects, smart names for all insights and an entire Data Management tool!

<blockquote class='warning-note'>
<b>IMPORTANT!</b> Before upgrading, make sure to run all async migrations on your instance. This version will not run until async migrations are completed. Please check out the <a href="/docs/self-host/configure/async-migrations/overview" target="_blank">async migrations</a> docs for details.
</blockquote>

## PostHog 1.34.0 release notes

> Wondering how to upgrade a self-hosted instance? Check out our [upgrade guide](/docs/self-host/configure/upgrading-posthog).

**Release highlights:**
- [Project homepages](#new-homepage)
- [Data Management](#new-data-management)
- [Property group filtering](#new-property-group-filtering)
- [Smart insight naming](#improvement-smart-insight-naming)
- [Staff user controls](#new-staff-users)

### New: Project homepages

> ![PostHog - Project Homepages](../images/blog/array/1_34_0-homepage.png)

Reviewer 3: This is the design, but the current implementation does not have these recently viewed/new panels. Could we do a product screenshot instead? @rcmarron

Reviewer 2: Updated.

### New: Property group filtering
One of the most requested features for PostHog, property group filters enable you to mix and match your favourite property filters with ```OR```s and ```AND``` conditions. This makes it much simpler to create complex filters when building insights, though this is currently only available as a global filter for insights.

### New: Staff user controls
Self-hosted users can now manage staff users on their instance settings. Staff users are a special instance-level permission which have access to instance-wide settings - and you probably want to have multiple staff users enabled to ensure your instance can always be properly maintained.

You can manage staff users either via the PostHog UI, or the API if you prefer - check out [the staff user docs](//docs/self-host/configure/instance-settings#staff-users) for more information.

### Other improvements & fixes
Version 1.34.0 also adds hundreds of other fixes and improvements, including...

- **Improved**: Dashboard "add insight" flow
- **Improved**: SSO login redirect
- **New:** Experiments secondary metrics

> - **New**: PostHog storybook

Reviewer 3: This one is super useful internally, but irrelevant for users. Instead, we could maybe mention that insight links no longer store filters at all, just the ID, making them super concise. CC @mariusandra

Author: ```suggestion
- **New**: Shorter insight links
```

> - **New**: History logging

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is out for self-hosted? @pauldambra

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
date: 2022-03-24
title: Array 1.34.0
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
categories: ["Release notes", "Product updates"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-array-blog.png
featuredImageType: full

> excerpt: PostHog 1.34.0 focuses on supporting collaboration. New features include a new default homepage for projects, smart names for all insights and an entire Data Management tool!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
excerpt: PostHog 1.34.0 focuses on supporting collaboration. New features include a new default homepage for projects, smart names for all insights, an entire Data Management tool as well as support for horizontal scalability!
```

Now, we've added smart insight naming to automatically generate descriptive names for every insight you create. This makes it a _lot_ easier to find the insights you need - thought you can of course add custom animal names, if you want.

### New: Property group filtering
![PostHog - property filters](../images/blog/array/1_34_0-property-filter.png)

One of the most requested features for PostHog, property group filters enable you to mix and match your favourite property filters with ```OR```s and ```AND``` conditions. This makes it much simpler to create complex filters when building insights, though this is currently only available as a global filter for insights.

### New: Staff user controls
Self-hosted users can now manage staff users on their instance settings. Staff users are a special instance-level permission which have access to instance-wide settings - and you probably want to have multiple staff users enabled to ensure your instance can always be properly maintained.

> You can manage staff users either via the PostHog UI, or the API if you prefer - check out [the staff user docs](//docs/self-host/configure/instance-settings#staff-users) for more information.

Reviewer 5: broken link?

> 

Reviewer 4: This completely missed sharding and replication which is a huge deal infra-wise.

```suggestion

### New: Sharding and replication support for ClickHouse

Self-hosted users can now shard and replicate their data on ClickHouse to scale horizontally. This can help improve fault tolerance and improve query performance in certain situations.

Check out the [horizontal scaling runbook](/docs/self-host/runbook/clickhouse/sharding-and-replication) for more information.
```
